we don't know if these vaccines will
work
uh we don't know if they'll work to
avoid deaths we don't know if they'll
work to avoid transmission
that's why we're working on so many
first generation vaccines
how do we know if these vaccines are
working you'd like it to be very safe
in all the populations that you indicate
it for
no side effects and you'd like it to
avoid the individual who gets the
vaccine getting sick
where are we in terms of a rapid
diagnostic
test you've talked about this a lot it
would be a test that is like an in-home
pregnancy test where are those tests
uh in the next uh two to four months
some of those tests will get approved
now they won't be as accurate
as the pcr which is a molecular test
and so over the next few months we have
to up pcr capacity we have to get
results back in 24 hours we need
both and the leg times that we have
today are completely unacceptable it's
making most of our tests
uh pretty much worthless the president
said just this weekend that
the u.s has the lowest mortality rate in
the world
is that factually correct not at all not
even close i mean
uh by almost every measure uh the u.s
is one of the worst why are we one of
the worst
we actually had criteria for opening up
that said you had to have cases
declining
and we opened up with cases increasing
we have schools all in the midst
of this decision about how to
get kids safely back into the classroom
or whether to learn
totally online how can we do it safely
the big challenge here is how to get the
teachers and the staff in
uh and to avoid those kids being a
source of infection as they go back into
their households
this next academic year does hang in the
balance
on top of the learning deficits we have
uh coming out of last year so i you know
i'd put that
uh after the deaths as the
you know next biggest costs one of our
viewers texted us this question his name
is eric he's actually from washington
state
where you are and he asks would you send
your children to public school in this
current situation
if the school is being careful then yes
uh
now if they live in a multi-generational
household
you know where you have old people that
they're exposed to you have to look how
hard would it be for you
to reduce the you know grandparents
exposure to those kids
we do need to remember it's mostly the
transmission
into the older people that drives these
you know really horrific deaths per day
bill gates thank you so much for joining
us and for all the information we
appreciate it
you bet thank you